docs/beta builds/README.md, before:

# Distribute beta builds

A lot of developers loves write React Native code.  
No developer likes to deploy RN app or distribute beta builds.  

All your headaches will disappear with this documentation and the amazing [Fastlane](https://fastlane.tools/) tool :)

## Before you start

You need a Mac. I'm sorry, but if you are a Windows user, you can stop reading right now.  
Fastlane will not work on Windows PC. But in all cases, if you need to deploy your app on IOS, you must have a Mac.

Let's explain which tools we are using to distribute beta builds:
* Fastlane is the easiest way to automate beta deployments and releases for your iOS and Android apps. It handles all tedious tasks, like generating screenshots, dealing with code signing, and releasing your application.
* TestFlight is part of App Store Connect and let you build your app and invite internal or external users to test it
* Google Play can also make same works as TestFlight, for android users

## Installing Fastlane

First, you need to install Fastlane on your Mac, following these steps:

1. Install the latest Xcode command line tools:
```
xcode-select --install
```
2. Install Ruby
```
brew install ruby
```
3. Install Fastlane with RubyGems
```
sudo gem install fastlane -NV
```

 You are now ready to setting up Fastlane for IOS and Android 

## iOS

### Prerequisites

Before continue reading, make sure you have :

- [ ] Xcode 9 or higher
- [ ] Choose the [bundle identifier](https://cocoacasts.com/what-are-app-ids-and-bundle-identifiers/) of your app (for example `com.tcm.boilerplate`)
- [ ] Your Apple ID username ; your email used for login into IOS developper portal (for example `dev-team@thecodingmachine.com`)
- [ ] Your Apple ID password ; your password used for login into IOS developper portal (for example `keep it secret`)
- [ ] Your app name, if not alreay created on the Developer Portal (for example `TCM React Native Boilerplate`). Fastlane can create applications in Developer Portal and App Store Connect, so it's recommended to let Fastlane do the right job for you.

Open your Xcode project, and modify some information:

- [ ] : In the `General` tab, `Identity` section, change your `Bundle Identifier` with the good one
- [ ] : In the `Build Settings` tab, under `Signing`, set `Don't Code Sign` as the `debug` codesigning identitiy and `iOS Distribution` as the `release` codesigning identitiy.

### Setting up

First, you need to setting up fastlane for your IOS project.
```
cd my-project/ios
fastlane init
```

Fastlane will automatically detect your project, and ask for any missing information.

Following questions will be asked :
* `What would you like to use fastlane for?`

   For this tutorial, good answer is `2` (Automate beta distribution to TestFlight)

* `Select Scheme:`

   Here, we will select the scheme without `-tvOS` suffix

* `Bundler identifier of your app`

   If you don't know, you don't have read the "Prerequisites" step :)  
   Our answer is `com.tcm.boilerplate`

* `Apple ID Username:`

   If you don't know, you don't have read the "Prerequisites" step :)  
   Our answer is `dev-team@thecodingmachine.com`

* `Password (for Apple ID Username):`

   If you don't know, you don't have read the "Prerequisites" step :)  
   Our answer is `keep it secret`


At this step, you can have the following issue:
```
fastlane init failed
["The request could not be completed because:", "Could not receive latest API key from App Store Connect, this might be a server issue."]
Something failed while running `fastlane init`
Tried using Apple ID with email 'dev-team@thecodingmachine.com'
You can either retry, or fallback to manual setup which will create a basic Fastfile
Would you like to fallback to a manual Fastfile? (y/n)
```
Answer `n`, and retry previous steps, with a good Apple ID and password.  
Be sure you have are connected to internet

* If your account has multiple teams in the App Store Connect, you may have this question: `Multiple App Store Connect teams found, please enter the number of the team you want to use:`

   Select the right team 

* If your account has multiple teams in the Developer Portal, you may have this question: `Multiple teams found on the Developer Portal, please enter the number of the team you want to use:`

   Select the right team 

* If you don't have already create the App on the Developer Portal, Fastlane can do it for you ! (else you must have a message `Your app 'com.tcm.boilerplate' is available in your Apple Developer Portal`)

   It will ask `Do you want fastlane to create the App ID for you on the Apple Developer Portal? (y/n)`
   Type `y`

At this step, Fastlane will prompt a summary an ask you some more questions if you answer `yes` at the previous question

* App Name:

   `TCM React Native Boilerplate`

* If you don't have already create the App on the App Store Connect, Fastlane can do it for you ! (else you must have a message `Your app 'com.tcm.boilerplate' is available on App Store Connect`)

   It will ask `Would you like fastlane to create the App on App Store Connect for you? (y/n)`
   Type `y`

At this step, Fastlane will prompt a summary an ask you some more questions if you answer `yes` at the previous question

* App Name:
   `TCM React Native Boilerplate`


Then, Fastlane will give you some informations about git, files it will create, etc. Juste type `enter` to continue.

Congrats! Fastlane has created some files.  
If you are using Git, commit all generated files.


Once setup is ended, you can see a new folder inside the `ios` folder
```
 - fastlane/
   - Appfile
   - Fastfile
```

`Appfile` contains identifiers used for the connection with Developer Portal and App Store Connect.  
You can read more about this file [here](https://docs.fastlane.tools/advanced/#appfile)
`Fastfile` contains all actions you can launch  
You can read more about this file [here](https://docs.fastlane.tools/actions)  

Because we previously choose `Automate beta distribution to TestFlight` on setting up step, a `beta` script is available by default.  
This script contains three actions:
* increment the build number of your app
* build your app
* upload to TestFlight

### Code signing

Code signing your app assures users that it is from a known source and the app hasn’t been modified since it was last signed. Before your app can integrate app services, be installed on a device, or be submitted to the App Store, it must be signed with a certificate issued by Apple.

A full guide is available on the fastlane doc, describing best approachs for your [code signing process](https://docs.fastlane.tools/codesigning/getting-started/)

Using `match` is probably [the best solution](https://codesigning.guide/).  
Because we don't want to revoke our existing certificates, but still want an automated setup, we will use [cert and sigh](https://docs.fastlane.tools/codesigning/getting-started/#using-cert-and-sigh).

Add the following to your `Fastfile`, just after `increment_build_number` and before `build_app`:
```
  get_certificates
  get_provisioning_profile(force: true)
```
If you have multiple teams, you can add the following before the `get_certificates` method :
```
    get_certificates( # Create or get certificate, and install it
      output_path: "./builds" # Download certificate in the build folder (you don't need to create the folder)
    )
    get_provisioning_profile( # Create or get provisioning profile
      output_path: "./builds",  # Download provisioning profile in the build folder
      filename: "provisioning.mobileprovision" # Rename the local provisioning profile
    )
    update_project_provisioning( # Set the project provisioning profile (related in Xcode to the General > Signing Release section)
      xcodeproj: "Boilerplate.xcodeproj",
      target_filter: "Boilerplate", # Name of your project
      profile: "./builds/provisioning.mobileprovision",
      build_configuration: "Release"
    )
    update_project_team( # Set the right team on your project
      teamid: CredentialsManager::AppfileConfig.try_fetch_value(:team_id)
    )
```

Then, we need to configure provisionning profile for the build step.  

Add the following to your `Fastfile`, inside the `build_app` function, just after the `scheme` parameter:
```
    clean: true,
    export_method: "app-store",
    export_options: {
      provisioningProfiles: { 
        CredentialsManager::AppfileConfig.try_fetch_value(:app_identifier) => "com.tcm.boilerplate AppStore"
      }
    },
    build_path: "./builds",
    archive_path: "./builds"
```	

The complete file can be found [here](ios/fastlane/Fastfile)

Doing this step, when you will create a beta build, the Provisioning Profile will be automatically created !


### Create a beta build

So, you can now easily upload your app into TestFlight with:
```
cd my-project/ios
fastlane beta
```


## Android

### Prerequisites

Before continue reading, make sure you have :

- [ ] This thing
- [ ] This thing

Commit message:

update doc with manual signing

docs/beta builds/README.md, after:

# Distribute beta builds

A lot of developers loves write React Native code.  
No developer likes to deploy RN app or distribute beta builds.  

All your headaches will disappear with this documentation and the amazing [Fastlane](https://fastlane.tools/) tool :)

## Before you start

You need a Mac. I'm sorry, but if you are a Windows user, you can stop reading right now.  
Fastlane will not work on Windows PC. But in all cases, if you need to deploy your app on IOS, you must have a Mac.

Let's explain which tools we are using to distribute beta builds:
* Fastlane is the easiest way to automate beta deployments and releases for your iOS and Android apps. It handles all tedious tasks, like generating screenshots, dealing with code signing, and releasing your application.
* TestFlight is part of App Store Connect and let you build your app and invite internal or external users to test it
* Google Play can also make same works as TestFlight, for android users

## Installing Fastlane

First, you need to install Fastlane on your Mac, following these steps:

1. Install the latest Xcode command line tools:
```
xcode-select --install
```
2. Install Ruby
```
brew install ruby
```
3. Install Fastlane with RubyGems
```
sudo gem install fastlane -NV
```

 You are now ready to setting up Fastlane for IOS and Android 

## iOS

### Prerequisites

Before continue reading, make sure you have :

- [ ] Xcode 9 or higher
- [ ] Choose the [bundle identifier](https://cocoacasts.com/what-are-app-ids-and-bundle-identifiers/) of your app (for example `com.tcm.boilerplate`)
- [ ] Your Apple ID username ; your email used for login into IOS developper portal (for example `dev-team@thecodingmachine.com`)
- [ ] Your Apple ID password ; your password used for login into IOS developper portal (for example `keep it secret`)
- [ ] Your app name, if not alreay created on the Developer Portal (for example `TCM React Native Boilerplate`). Fastlane can create applications in Developer Portal and App Store Connect, so it's recommended to let Fastlane do the right job for you.

Open your Xcode project, and modify some information:

- [ ] In the `General` tab, `Identity` section, change your `Bundle Identifier` with the good one
- [ ] In the `Build Settings` tab, under `Signing`, set `Don't Code Sign` as the `debug` codesigning identitiy and `iOS Distribution` as the `release` codesigning identitiy (for both `Debug`/`Release` and `Any iOS SDK`).

### Setting up

First, you need to setting up fastlane for your iOS project.
```
cd my-project/ios
fastlane init
```

Fastlane will automatically detect your project, and ask for any missing information.

Following questions will be asked :
* `What would you like to use fastlane for?`

   For this tutorial, good answer is `2` (Automate beta distribution to TestFlight)

* `Select Scheme:`

   Here, we will select the scheme without `-tvOS` suffix

* `Apple ID Username:`

   If you don't know, you don't have read the "Prerequisites" step :)  
   Our answer is `dev-team@thecodingmachine.com`

* `Password (for Apple ID Username):`

   If you don't know, you don't have read the "Prerequisites" step :)  
   Our answer is `keep it secret`


At this step, you can have the following issue:
```
fastlane init failed
["The request could not be completed because:", "Could not receive latest API key from App Store Connect, this might be a server issue."]
Something failed while running `fastlane init`
Tried using Apple ID with email 'dev-team@thecodingmachine.com'
You can either retry, or fallback to manual setup which will create a basic Fastfile
Would you like to fallback to a manual Fastfile? (y/n)
```
Answer `n`, and retry previous steps, with a good Apple ID and password.  
Be sure you are connected to internet

* If your account has multiple teams in the App Store Connect, you may have this question: `Multiple App Store Connect teams found, please enter the number of the team you want to use:`

   Select the right team 

* If your account has multiple teams in the Developer Portal, you may have this question: `Multiple teams found on the Developer Portal, please enter the number of the team you want to use:`

   Select the right team 

* If you don't have already create the App on the Developer Portal, Fastlane can do it for you ! (else you must have a message `Your app 'com.tcm.boilerplate' is available in your Apple Developer Portal`)

   It will ask `Do you want fastlane to create the App ID for you on the Apple Developer Portal? (y/n)`
   Type `y`

At this step, Fastlane will prompt a summary an ask you some more questions if you answer `yes` at the previous question

* App Name:

   `TCM React Native Boilerplate`

* If you don't have already create the App on the App Store Connect, Fastlane can do it for you ! (else you must have a message `Your app 'com.tcm.boilerplate' is available on App Store Connect`)

   It will ask `Would you like fastlane to create the App on App Store Connect for you? (y/n)`
   Type `y`

At this step, Fastlane will prompt a summary an ask you some more questions if you answer `yes` at the previous question

* App Name:
   `TCM React Native Boilerplate`


Then, Fastlane will give you some informations about git, files it will create, etc. Just type `enter` to continue.

Congrats! Fastlane has created some files.  
If you are using Git, commit all generated files.


Once setup is ended, you can see a new folder inside the `ios` folder
```
 - fastlane/
   - Appfile
   - Fastfile
```

`Appfile` contains identifiers used for the connection with Developer Portal and App Store Connect.  
You can read more about this file [here](https://docs.fastlane.tools/advanced/#appfile)  

`Fastfile` contains all actions you can launch  
You can read more about this file [here](https://docs.fastlane.tools/actions)  
Because we previously choose `Automate beta distribution to TestFlight` on setting up step, a `beta` script is available by default.  
This script contains three actions:
* increment the build number of your app
* build your app
* upload to TestFlight

### Code signing

Code signing your app assures users that it is from a known source and the app hasn’t been modified since it was last signed. Before your app can integrate app services, be installed on a device, or be submitted to the App Store, it must be signed with a certificate issued by Apple.

A full guide is available on the fastlane doc, describing best approachs for your [code signing process](https://docs.fastlane.tools/codesigning/getting-started/)

Using `match` is probably [the best solution](https://codesigning.guide/).  
Because we don't want to revoke our existing certificates, but still want an automated setup, we will use [cert and sigh](https://docs.fastlane.tools/codesigning/getting-started/#using-cert-and-sigh).

Add the following to your `Fastfile`, just after the `increment_build_number` function and before `build_app`:
```
    disable_automatic_code_signing # Disable Xcode automatic code signing
    get_certificates( # Create or get certificate, and install it
      output_path: "./builds" # Download certificate in the build folder (you don't need to create the folder)
    )
    get_provisioning_profile( # Create or get provisioning profile
      output_path: "./builds",  # Download provisioning profile in the build folder
      filename: "provisioning.mobileprovision" # Rename the local provisioning profile
    )
    update_project_provisioning( # Set the project provisioning profile (related in Xcode to the General > Signing Release section)
      xcodeproj: "Boilerplate.xcodeproj",
      target_filter: "Boilerplate", # Name of your project
      profile: "./builds/provisioning.mobileprovision",
      build_configuration: "Release"
    )
    update_project_team( # Set the right team on your project
      teamid: CredentialsManager::AppfileConfig.try_fetch_value(:team_id)
    )
```

Then, we need to configure provisionning profile for the build step.  

Add the following to your `Fastfile`, inside the `build_app` function, just after the `scheme` parameter:
```
    clean: true,
    export_method: "app-store",
    export_options: {
      provisioningProfiles: { 
        CredentialsManager::AppfileConfig.try_fetch_value(:app_identifier) => "com.tcm.boilerplate AppStore" # Value of this parameter is the name of the Provisioning Profile. By default, it will be "bundleId AppStore"
      },
      signingStyle: "manual"
    },
    build_path: "./builds",
    archive_path: "./builds"
```	
Make sure you added a `,` after the `scheme` parameter  

The complete file can be found [here](ios/fastlane/Fastfile)

Doing this step, when you will create a beta build, the Certificates and Provisioning Profile will be automatically created !  
:rocket: You are now ready to create your first beta build  


### Create a beta build

So, you can now easily upload your app into TestFlight with:
```
cd my-project/ios
fastlane beta
```


## Android

### Prerequisites

Before continue reading, make sure you have :

- [ ] This thing
- [ ] This thing
